[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Tell me
about the title "Hacking
the Afterlife."
>>RICHARD MARTINI: Well,
we tend to lose fear when
we realize that life goes on.
We tend to lose the
phobias that we've--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MARTINI: --had for, who
knows how many lifetimes?
Imagine how shocking it was--
>>NOORY: And you found it?
>>MARTINI: --to find his name
as the gunner on Lady Belle.
The pilot of that
plane survived,
went to a prisoner of war camp.
And he passed away just a couple
of years ago, I'm sorry to say.
>>NOORY: You can't
make that stuff up.
>>MARTINI: You
can't make that up.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NOORY: Welcome to this
edition of "Beyond Belief."
Richard Martini with us,
a best-selling author
on books about the afterlife
or what he calls the flipside.
He has three films on Gaia--
"Flipside-- A Journey
into the Afterlife,"
"Talking to Bill Paxton--"
he was the actor--
and "Hacking the Afterlife."
So, welcome back, Mr. Martini.
>>MARTINI: George, I'm
so glad to be here.
>>NOORY: You are
always in demand.
It's good to see you, my friend.
How have you been?
>>MARTINI: I've been
fantastic, really.
I had a hip replaced, but
other than that, I'm just fine.
>>NOORY: At least you
weren't on the flipside.
>>MARTINI: That's true.
Because you always wonder.
When they put you under,
are you going to come back?
>>NOORY: Are you
going to come back?
It's a weird feeling, isn't it?
>>MARTINI: Because it's
very hard to write books
from the flipside.
But it is fun to reach
out to your friends
and loved ones from there.
>>NOORY: How did
they put you under?
IV?
>>MARTINI: Yeah, they
put you on an IV.
And the anesthesiologist
was talking to me.
So, Rich, in a few minutes,
you're going to feel--
and then he was doing
that with his hand.
And I suddenly was gone.
And then next thing I knew, his
hand was doing this and going--
so that was a
three-hour operation.
>>NOORY: Just like that?
>>MARTINI: Just like that.
>>NOORY: Oh, my.
Were you in much pain
afterwards, healing wise?
>>MARTINI: Healing wise,
you do go through stuff,
but it's a lot different.
A hip is much easier than knee.
>>NOORY: Can I have you
run around our studio?
>>MARTINI: Please don't.
>>NOORY: "Hacking the
Afterlife" premiering on Gaia.
Tell me about this.
>>MARTINI: Well,
it's interesting.
The first film that I had on
Gaia is called "Flipside."
And it was based on the
research that I've been doing.
And it was nine years ago today
that I was first on "Coast
to Coast."
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>MARTINI: So happy
anniversary to us.
>>NOORY: Perfect.
>>MARTINI: But as time went
on, people would ask me,
what have you been doing?
So I continued to film
people under deep hypnosis.
I continued to film mediums
talking about the afterlife.
And I continued to film people
who, through meditation, could
access near-death
experiences, vivid dreams,
talking to their loved
ones with no hypnosis.
>>NOORY: On the flipside.
>>MARTINI: On the flipside, but
confirming who they were just
by giving them new information.
And I've been filming that.
So I thought, I should try
to put something together.
So it really is an amalgamation
of the past 10 years
of me filming people
doing this stuff
and learning new things
about the afterlife.
It's mind bending.
One of my friends, Howard
Schultz, is not the coffee guy.
But he was the guy who
created "Extreme Makeover--"
good, close friend who passed
away, subsequently after we
filmed his past life regression.
And he used to show this past
life regression to everybody
who would come into his office.
Because he remembered
a lifetime where
he was a young girl taken out
of Denmark and put in Dachau.
>>NOORY: He remembers this?
>>MARTINI: He remembered.
Well, under hypnosis.
>>NOORY: Under hypnotherapy?
>>MARTINI: Yeah.
And so Michael Newton's method.
Scott De Tamble was
the hypnotherapist.
But on camera,
live, he's recalling
this lifetime in Dachau.
I was able to find
all the details
and confirm what he was saying.
But it was fascinating
to hear him
talk about the choice
of that lifetime
and why he chose that
particular dark lifetime.
As he said, I had so many
lifetimes in the light.
I had forgotten how
dark it could be.
But he said it scorched my soul.
And so it was very unusual.
And it's on camera in the film
where the hypnotherapist says,
is there any way we can help
you with the memory of this,
this scorched memory?
And he said my
guides are walking me
into the river of souls.
And it's washing away all of
my pain from that experience.
Now, I've never heard
of something like that.
I'm literally across
the room filming.
But what Howard
is saying and what
others say in the film
is consistent with all
of the other research I've done.
>>NOORY: Tell me about the
title "Hacking the Afterlife."
>>MARTINI: Well,
it's not so much--
I mean, it sounds
pretty violent.
But the idea of
hacking life tips,
hacking things
around the kitchen,
which is a modern
term for looking
at something through new eyes.
So my thought was by calling
it that, by accessing--
and what's the point of
accessing the afterlife?
It's to learn how to
navigate the planet.
We tend to lose fear when we
realize that life goes on.
We tend to lose the
phobias that we've
had for who knows how many
lifetimes when we access that.
And sometimes you can--
well, for example, there's
a woman with Parkinson's,
a professor from USC
that was a friend of mine.
And she agreed to
appear on camera,
very serious case of
Parkinson's, could barely
sit still.
And on camera, you
see as she is--
>>NOORY: Her
movements and stuff.
>>MARTINI: They all
disappear under hypnosis.
And she starts speaking clearly.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MARTINI: And
she starts talking
about her life and her journey.
And she accesses why
she got Parkinson's.
She accesses how she could
be healed from Parkinson's.
And then as he talks her
back and counts her down
from whatever that number is and
then when she gets back to 1,
everything comes back.
So it's an unusual
exploration into the mind
and to accessing consciousness.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Interesting.
You should do that
with Michael J. Fox.
>>MARTINI: Well,
of course, when I
filmed it, the first
thing I did was write
a letter to his organization.
It's very hard to hear from a--
I'm a filmmaker.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>MARTINI: It's very hard
to hear from some guy--
>>NOORY: Who's a filmmaker.
>>MARTINI: --who's a filmmaker.
And--
>>NOORY: Not a medical--
>>MARTINI: --I've
written, directed--
>>NOORY: --practitioner.
>>MARTINI: I mean, I've had nine
feature films and the Directors
Guild, et cetera, et cetera.
But I'm not a doctor,
and I'm not a scientist,
but I am an observer.
And I am a documenter.
And so I can show him
on camera this happened.
>>NOORY: The difference?
>>MARTINI: Yes.
And my feeling--
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>MARTINI: --about that is
if I had that affliction,
I would do a hypnosis
session every day.
Every morning--
>>NOORY: Me, too.
>>MARTINI: --I would
have somebody come over--
>>NOORY: Me, too.
>>MARTINI: --and just say,
look, for the whole duration
of today's thing, you're
not going to shake.
You're just going
to talk normally.
And you're going to
take your time doing it.
Now, I don't know
why that works.
I don't think it's--
it's not psychosomatic,
but it does work.
And I've seen it,
and it's on camera.
And that's why it's in the film.
>>NOORY: There's a moment
in your film "Hacking
the Afterlife."
Josh Davidow describes feeling
his consciousness outside
of his body.
>> Here's my consciousness.
And I was just like, where am I?
What's going on?
What's the story?
Because I was so used
to hearing that voice.
And then I look down.
And that was probably
the next thing I saw.
So the first thing I saw was the
landscape and the amazing scape
of the top from that.
But then I looked
down and saw my body.
And what I immediately
remember thinking
is seeing your dead
body and immediately
going into the habituated
thought of going,
Jesus, that's bad.
But the second I did that,
there was another part of me
that went, hang on a minute.
That's not bad.
It's not anything.
It's just that's your body.
I'm still me.
And I hear my voice.
And I'm cracking
wise in my head.
But I don't have that body.
What else don't I have?
And then I started going
through this live checklist.
And I don't have guilt.
And I don't have shame.
>> No.
>> And I don't have pain.
And I don't have history.
And I don't have
all of these things
that I really owned
as a physical--
>>NOORY: Were you
there when he had that?
>>MARTINI: I was there
when it happened,
but I wasn't aware of it.
Because we were both
walking around Mount
Kailash with Robert
Thurman and a tour group.
And it wasn't until recently
that I was talking to Josh.
And he said, yeah, I had a
near-death experience when
we were in Tibet and
on Mount Kailash.
And I said, well, why don't
I film you talking about it?
Knowing that I have
this odd technique where
I ask people to access a
memory, a near-death event.
And I walk them
back into the event
to see what they can remember.
And in this case, I had
never heard from him
what his story was.
And he tells it live on
camera where suddenly, he's
gone the ground.
And he's floating above, and
he's looking down at his body.
And he's becoming aware of all--
>>NOORY: Of what's happening.
>>MARTINI: --these things.
Yeah--
>>NOORY: He's pretty glee
about the thing, isn't he?
>>MARTINI: Well, he's
a pretty glee guy.
He's an editor who went
to NYU Film School.
And he cut the film
"Flipside" for me.
But it's really
fascinating about Josh,
is a little further
on in the film,
I ask him, have you ever
had any other lifetimes
that you can remember?
Again, he's not under hypnosis.
We're on Zoom,
clearly, just chatting.
And he said yeah.
And I asked him to just
whatever pops into your mind.
And he suddenly said,
OK, I'm seeing myself
in World War II in a bomber.
And I said, what's your
occupation in the bomber?
And he said gunner.
And I said, and
what's your name?
He said the guy's name.
And I said, and what's
the name of the plane?
Because every plane that
flew in World War II not only
has a name, but a manifest.
And somebody has recorded them.
So he says Lady Belle.
And I, of course, jaded
Hollywood guy, I go,
you mean "Memphis Belle?"
Thinking he must have seen the
movie, and he's putting this--
>>NOORY: In his head.
>>MARTINI: Because I can't
be less jaded than I am.
But, no, he said,
no, Lady Belle.
Lady Belle.
And so I looked it up.
And imagine how
shocking it was--
>>NOORY: And you found it?
>>MARTINI: --to find his name
as the gunner on Lady Belle.
That was--
>>NOORY: Remarkable.
>>MARTINI: --not the
plane he died in,
but he flew in Lady Belle.
I don't know how many missions.
But eventually, he then
transfers to another plane.
And in that plane, he's
shot down over Germany.
The pilot of that
plane survived,
went to a prisoner of war camp.
And he passed away just a couple
of years ago, I'm sorry to say.
>>NOORY: You can't
make that stuff up.
>>MARTINI: You
can't make that up.
And it's live on camera.
So some people try to parse
it or pretzel logic it
to a point where they said,
well, this can't possibly be.
He must be reading his mind.
But Josh, literally on camera,
the glib guy that he is,
suddenly recalls this event.
And it turns out to be
absolutely accurate.
>>NOORY: Tell me about
Jennifer Shaffer.
>>MARTINI: So I get an email
from her Facebook account.
Somebody wants to be my friend.
>>NOORY: Everybody
wants to be your friend.
>>MARTINI: Everybody.
And so you get those.
And I looked at her photograph.
And I thought, oh, what is this?
But I said yes.
And then she sent me--
she texted me a photograph
of her saying, he said yes.
She's a medium.
She had been a stockbroker.
But she started becoming aware
of people's deaths, people
around her, people who
would come to visit her.
She started working
with the Colorado
Bureau of Investigation,
members of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation
in missing person cases,
so she does that nationwide.
She does that pro bono.
And somewhere along the line,
people started seeing her.
Because she's like having a
cell phone to the flipside.
And when she first
contacted me, I
thought I don't know
what a psychic medium is.
But I realized that a
psychic predicts the future.
A medium is like a
cell phone to the--
>>NOORY: Deals with
the other side.
>>MARTINI: Yeah.
And so what I did was
about six years ago,
I said, well, why
don't we just see.
Well, I said, you do
missing person cases?
Well, maybe we can talk
about Amelia Earhart.
Because as you know--
>>NOORY: I remember that.
You were into her.
>>MARTINI: --I had spent
decades researching her.
And I didn't even
tell her Amelia.
I just said, I want to look for
the most famous missing person.
I spent three hours
in her office.
She knew as much about
Amelia Earhart as I did.
And from that point forward,
I realized, oh, my gosh,
a great medium is like a
cell phone to the other side.
So for six years, every week,
we get together and film an hour
of me asking questions to
somebody on the other side.
Could be a friend of mine,
could be a friend of hers,
could be somebody who passed
away in the news the week
before.
And then because of the COVID,
we decided to put that online.
And so we've been doing
that for a year now.
>>NOORY: And you do it through
a podcast as well, don't you?
>>MARTINI:
hackingtheafterlife.com.
>>NOORY: Let's look.
>> Just to clarify for people
tuning in for the first time
or the hundredth time, this is a
person that Jennifer and I have
talked to before, that I
personally have talked to via
other people before, who is not
somebody who incarnates and not
somebody who has ever--
let's ask him.
Have you ever been
on the planet?
>> No.
And you also described yourself.
And this is a
self-description not
coming from me and not from
Jennifer, but as somebody
who was "the librarian."
>> Can I share with you
what he's showing me?
>> Please.
He knows what I'm going
to ask, so go ahead.
>> So as you're talking,
he's showing me.
He's making me
feel coincidences.
He's the one that knows every
meeting, everything that
happens here and elsewhere.
And so it's like
everything crisscrosses.
I can't explain it.
It's like the lights.
So us meeting each
other, everything
making all these things happen.
>> What seems like coincidence,
he's showing you as actual
blueprints.
>> Correct.
>>NOORY: Would you say
she's a medium, Rich?
>>MARTINI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And a good one?
>>MARTINI: She's
a fantastic one.
And I've had many of my
friends go to see her.
All I can say is the proof
is in the pudding, which
is I've had her talk to friends
of mine on the other side
that I only know the answers
to the questions I'm asking.
And I've been able to use her
in this really unique way.
So for example, a
friend of mine's father
was in hospice
care with dementia
and maybe a month left to live.
And I decided to access his
higher self through Jennifer.
>>NOORY: While he's still alive?
>>MARTINI: While
he's still alive.
And I wanted to ask him what
his experience was like.
And in the course
of our conversation,
first he proved
to me who he was.
Because he remembered
me as a kid.
He remembered all
the things I did.
And he talked about them.
>>NOORY: Who would know that?
>>MARTINI: Nobody
would know that.
He even talked about--
>>NOORY: Except, yeah.
>>MARTINI: --the
toast that he used
to feed his dog in the morning.
Only I know that.
But then I said, what's
it like for you, Jack?
Jack Tracey.
What's it like for you?
And he said, well, about 10%
of me is still in my body.
And 90% is already back home.
He said it's like leaving a
foot in the pool, like your leg.
You're dangling your
leg in the pool.
So that idea of using a
medium to access the higher
self of someone
you love is a tool,
rather than something
mysterious, or magical,
or beyond our comprehension.
You can literally--
a good medium
can put you in touch with pretty
much anyone on the flipside.
>>NOORY: That's dramatic.
>>MARTINI: It's a game changer.
And people contact
me constantly about,
why don't you look up this
murder or look up that event?
And Jennifer, like I said,
works with law enforcement.
And most of her day is talking
to law enforcement people
around the world.
They've got a case.
They give her the outline
of what the issues are.
>>NOORY: They respect her?
>>MARTINI: They
totally respect her.
And they ask her to come
up with details of what--
so they can follow it up
and do the detective work.
She's very good at that.
But any great medium will
tell you they're interpreting.
They're seeing an
image, and they're
trying to tell you what
they think it means.
Now, for example, Jennifer
and I do these things
where this podcast--
she'll say so and so is here.
And she'll say, he's showing
me a picture of this.
And I'll say-- and at
first thought, you think,
why are they--
yesterday, Steve
Martin showed up.
And of course, he's
still on the planet.
>>NOORY: He's still here.
>>MARTINI: Yeah.
And so she says, why am
I seeing Steve Martin?
And I said, wait a second.
Is this related to
my friend, Charles?
And she said, yes,
that's correct.
My friend, Charles Grodin
passed away this past year.
He was very close with Steve.
And he had actually
taken me to Steve's house
a number of times.
And my--
>>NOORY: Oh, cool.
>>MARTINI: --girlfriend
and I spent the night
at Steve's house.
And he wanted to talk
about Steve's new show.
So Charles' way of
introducing the topic
was to show her an
image of Steve Martin.
She brought him
to the forefront.
And then I started
talking about it.
And I said, so what do
you think of his show?
And he wanted to say,
look, Steve, I still exist.
You can hear me, but you're
trying to not hear me.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
tried to communicate
with Robin Williams?
>>MARTINI: Robin Williams
started showing up.
And a very unusual
event happened.
I was working on the book
"Hacking the Afterlife."
Hey, I've used
that title before.
And at the time, there was a
chapter about Robin Williams.
And it was my
experience with Robin
where I had dinner with him.
And I knew Jonathan Winters,
et cetera, et cetera.
So it was all about
me, me, me, me, me.
And when I got done with
the chapter, I thought,
you know what?
This is just too much about
me and not about Robin.
And so I took it
out of the book.
And Jennifer and I were having
our once a week meeting.
And she said Robin
Williams is here.
And I said, oh, OK.
How's he doing?
What does he want to say?
He wants you to put his
chapter back in the book.
Jennifer could never
have known that.
I had not told anybody.
I had just--
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MARTINI: --edited it out.
No one had seen it.
So I was like--
and then when the book came out,
as a joke I contacted Jennifer.
And I said, I need a
quote from all the people
that we talked to in the book.
What does Robin want me
to put on the cover as--
>>NOORY: I love it.
>>MARTINI: --a quote from him?
And his answer was that.
He said, love love.
I said, what does that mean?
She asked him.
He said love what love is.
Love while you're on the planet.
Love why you're on the planet.
Love who you are
with on the planet.
Love love.
And now, it's become
as much as I can.
I sign off my letters that way.
>>NOORY: I love that.
I love that.
That's great.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MARTINI: I love you.
>>NOORY: You've dealt
with a lot of celebrities
on the other side.
Let's talk about-- let me throw
some names your way and show--
>>MARTINI: Sure.
>>NOORY: --me what it's like.
Elvis Presley?
>>MARTINI: Elvis Presley.
Now, listen, how crazy is that,
that somebody would tell you
that Elvis Presley is
knocking on our class?
But Elvis-- and so I
ask the same questions
to whoever shows up.
Because I'm not interested
in the celebrity part of it.
No one is a celebrity
on the flipside.
There's no hierarchy.
But when Elvis shows
up, I say, so what do
you want to talk about, Elvis?
And what his answer was--
that when he passed
away, the first person
who was there to greet him was
a child that he didn't have.
And he wanted to bring that up.
Because he said, I felt so
much love from that child.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MARTINI: And he said
my life-- people--
I didn't have that kind
of unconditional love.
I had a lot of adulation,
but I didn't experience it.
And I want to talk about that.
And I want people to know
that when they pass over,
they may experience that, a
child that didn't come to term.
>>NOORY: Well, he sang
that great song "I
Believe" that had to do with
a child and everything else.
>>MARTINI: Oh, I
didn't know that.
>>NOORY: Classic.
>>MARTINI: So when somebody
comes up, I try to avoid this.
Because I work in show business,
and I know what that means.
I know that everybody puts
their pants on the same way.
And you've got to put the
makeup on and get to the set.
And seeing yourself 40 feet
high makes it seem different,
but you're just who you are.
And the same thing when
you get to the flipside.
You are who you chose
to be as well as
who you were in
previous lifetimes.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>MARTINI: So Elvis,
a fantastic musician.
And he talked about
his relationship
with Colonel Tom Parker as
well, which is fascinating.
Because he said in
a previous lifetime,
the roles were switched where
he was the one who controls.
>>NOORY: He was the manager.
>>MARTINI: Yeah, he
was the manager who
wouldn't let him do anything.
>>NOORY: What about the CNN
restaurateur Anthony Bourdain?
>>MARTINI: Well,
just after he passed,
Jennifer and I were
having lunch together.
>>NOORY: He took
his life, right?
>>MARTINI: Yes, he did.
And so when he came forth--
and I didn't invite him.
Let's just put it that way.
Jennifer and I
were having lunch.
And she went, Anthony
Bourdain is here.
And I said, why?
And I excoriated him
for checking out early.
And at some point in our
conversation, she said,
he's throwing his hands up
like, why are you grilling me?
But I wanted to know.
Why did you throw away
such a wonderful journey?
And you know what his reply was?
I was badly misinformed.
He said he thought
he could end it all.
He thought that once you did
yourself in, everything ended.
>>NOORY: That was it.
>>MARTINI: But that's a
line from "Casablanca."
I came here for the waters.
There are no waters
in "Casablanca."
I was badly misinformed.
It's a funny line.
And then, also, he's
such an erudite fellow.
So when he shows up, he mocks
me for the questions that I ask.
So I'm asking him a question.
And he said, really?
That's your question?
>>NOORY: That's the
best you can do?
Right?
>>MARTINI: And sometimes
I'll say to him--
if we're talking to
somebody else entirely--
I think we were talking
to Frank Sinatra.
Again, celebrity name.
But of course, on
the flipside, not.
And I said, well,
Anthony, you're here.
What would you ask Frank?
And he said, I'd like to ask
him not a question for me
and not a question for Jennifer.
But he said, I'd
like to ask him how
he was able to handle the fame.
What did he do to allay
the fears and the--
>>NOORY: He loved it.
>>MARTINI: --solitude?
Anthony also had
taken many drugs,
as you know, in his youth.
And sometimes drug use--
heroin, stuff like that--
can screw with the--
>>NOORY: Yes, it can.
>>MARTINI: --ability
to feel joy.
And that is something
that people talk about
on the flipside.
Or they constantly refer to
it-- feeling unconditional love
and feeling joy.
And so people here
on the planet--
sometimes medications force
them into that feeling.
And sometimes it's their
life does, whatever that is.
But the point is-- and
this is so important.
Because he said--
I said, so how do you want to
tell people to stop doing that?
He said meditation.
And I said, what do you mean?
Did you meditate?
He said, no, idiot.
If I did, I'd still
be on the planet.
>>NOORY: He called you an idiot?
>>MARTINI: Yes, he did.
And I was like, oh,
this is hilarious,
because it sounds like him.
But his point is meditation
can cure depression.
If you look at the research
from Richard Davidson
at the University
of Wisconsin, he
showed that
meditation can change
the shape of the amygdala,
which is the regulator--
>>NOORY: The regulator.
>>MARTINI: --of serotonin.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>MARTINI: And it
can cure or alleviate
symptoms of depression.
Med means measure in Latin.
So it's not like you
have to get a robe,
and you have to become a
monk or get into a yoga pose.
Learn how to meditate.
You can just do that simply
through the breath meditation.
But the point is
Anthony saying--
and I've heard it
consistently from people
who took their own
lives and asking them.
So how do we tell
people not to do that?
And they have all said some
version of learn to meditate.
Meditation allows you
to get outside yourself
and not care so
much about ending.
>>NOORY: The great
entertainer Prince.
You dealt with him.
>>MARTINI: And Prince showed up,
right after he had passed away.
The Purple One.
And, listen, part of one of my--
weird part of my career has been
a music critic at "Variety."
So I got to meet him.
I got to be backstage.
And he was a certain
type of great--
>>NOORY: Great talent.
>>MARTINI: Unbelievable.
Just so talented.
>>NOORY: Electrifying.
>>MARTINI: And so
it was startling.
Because after he had
passed, he showed up.
And I wasn't that big of a fan.
>>NOORY: And he
OD'd, if I remember.
Right?
>>MARTINI: And
here's how he put it.
There's versions of how
people do themselves in.
Sometimes it's through smoking.
Sometimes it's through
excessive-- driving
too fast when you're drinking.
In his case, he said, quote,
"Jumping off pianos killed me."
And I said, what do you mean?
And he said, I loved to
jump off pianos in my show.
That hurt my ankles.
And that eventually
hurt my hips.
And I had to take
pain medication
to alleviate that pain.
And that eventually got
him addicted to opioids.
And so that's what did
him in, not so much
that he wanted to check out.
But I did ask him
this question-- was
this one of your exit ramps?
It's a question that
you can ask when you
have conversations with people.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MARTINI: And people
do say that when you're
planning your life, you may
have points where you're like,
OK, I've done all I need to do.
It's time to go back and
plan for the next one.
He talked about a
previous lifetime
where he was not given a voice,
where everything he tried
to do in his life to
his previous lifetime--
he wasn't able to
express himself.
And so this was like a gift
for him to express himself.
I've got a book I'm
working on now about music
in the afterlife.
And he's prominently
featured in it.
Because he's somebody who talks
about modulating frequency
or accessing people
on the other side
by retuning your filters
around the frequencies
so that you can
access loved ones.
>>NOORY: One of your favorites--
Amelia Earhart.
Where is she?
[LAUGHTER]
>>MARTINI: Amelia showed up on
our podcast about a month ago.
And the reason that
was so fascinating
for me and for Jennifer is
that Jennifer started off
the podcast by saying
there's someone here
who says he's a movie producer.
I might be able to know
him, but I had no idea.
I said, do you know
his first name?
She's like, I can't get it.
I don't know who this is.
And I said, well, let's ask him.
Who brought you here?
He said Amelia Earhart.
And I immediately went to my
vast trove of Amelia lore.
And I said, wait a second.
Is your first name Carl?
And he said yes.
Carl Laemmle who
passed away in 1939,
who was responsible
for Universal Pictures,
had gone to Amelia Earhart
and offered her a picture deal
where she would play herself.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MARTINI: And he hired
her to write a screenplay.
>>NOORY: I didn't know that.
>>MARTINI: Nobody does.
And she wrote a screenplay
with Mary Pickford.
Her husband talks about
it in one of the books
he wrote after her passing--
after her disappearance.
I'm sorry.
>>NOORY: Disappearance.
>>MARTINI: She didn't
pass until 1944.
But the point of
the story is Amelia
was there saying to Carl.
And Jennifer was
picking up on it.
Amelia was like, I told
you they wouldn't get it.
I told you this would be
harder than you thought.
But it wasn't.
Because we got it like that.
And I asked Carl, so what
do you do over there?
And he said, you have no idea.
We create the most
amazing adventures.
We have all these
fantastic things,
because everything is
a mental construct.
You can have movies.
You can have anything that
you can possibly imagine.
He said when we get bored
with doing that, that's
when we decide to come back.
>>NOORY: Now, when you said
she passed in 1944, how?
>>MARTINI: She died of
dysentery, according to Amelia.
As you know, I've
been to Saipan.
>>NOORY: Her plane crashed.
>>MARTINI: Well,
she didn't crash.
In a nutshell--
>>NOORY: Why not?
>>MARTINI: --I've
been researching this
for, as you know, a long time.
She landed her plane.
She was trying to
get to Holland.
She took a turn.
The plan B was to go
to Gardner Island.
>>NOORY: She had somebody
with her, too, didn't she?
>>MARTINI: That's right.
Fred Noonan was her navigator.
She missed Gardner.
Because she was 200 miles
northwest of Holland
when she realized she
was running out of fuel.
But she didn't run out of fuel.
She landed the plane in Mili.
Eyewitnesses who saw
her land the plane.
Pieces of the plane
found on Mili Atoll
that have been verified
by an NTSB investigator.
She was picked up
by the Japanese.
She was taken to the military
headquarters of Japan,
which was in Saipan.
And she was imprisoned there.
Fred apparently was executed
for being a spy because they
were on a mission--
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MARTINI: --for Roosevelt--
>>NOORY: They were.
They were on a mission.
>>MARTINI: --to find out whether
the Japanese were building
naval facilities and they were.
She was allowed to live.
She lived for seven years.
I interviewed at least 15.
There's over 200 islanders.
But I've interviewed
15 islanders
on camera, who either
their parents saw
her or they themselves saw her
while she was living there.
And then I interviewed
a dozen GIs, US Marines.
They aren't prone to
making up stories.
They all said the same
story of finding her plane,
finding her briefcase,
finding her passport--
>>NOORY: What about finding her?
>>MARTINI: --and
destroying the plane.
Yes-- and finding her.
And so there were two GIs--
a guy named Henson and Burks--
they dug her up in 1963.
The way they told the
story of Fred Goerner
was that they were
sent out in the jungle.
And they said, what are we doing
out here, digging up bodies?
And the CO said, did you
ever hear of Amelia Earhart?
Don't ask any questions.
Now, here's where
Jennifer Shaffer comes in.
When she told me that she was
looking for missing persons,
I interviewed her.
And we got to the end of
the interview with Amelia.
And she said, by the way,
the two GIs who dug me
up-- they only found an arm.
Jennifer could never
have known that.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MARTINI: Only I knew that.
>>NOORY: Only you knew that.
>>MARTINI: But what's
interesting is,
George, when I had left
her office, the phone rang.
It was the NTSB
investigator from Seattle,
saying I just went over all
of these incredible details
about her life.
And everything you've
told me is accurate.
But when they dug up her
body, they only found her arm.
This is literally 10
minutes after Amelia
had told me the same thing.
And then six months
later, I found it
in a UPI news report, 1977.
>>NOORY: Has it
been verified since?
>>MARTINI: Well, Henson and
Burks said in this UPI thing
that they dug up a partial
rib cage and her arm.
So I found the evidence of them
saying that's what they found.
Now, what did they
do with her arm?
They turned it over.
Did it get destroyed in
the Battle of Okinawa?
It's possible.
Did it get sent to the CIA
headquarters and sits in a box?
It's possible.
The truth is Amelia's
body was moved
by the nuns who buried her.
And Jennifer showed me
where she was reburied.
Now, here's where it gets mind
bending, because I had just
come back from Saipan.
She drew a map of Saipan-- a
place she's never heard of--
and drew the
location I had been.
And she said that's
where her bones are.
So I'm ready to go
back and dig her up.
>>NOORY: The actor Charles
Grodin, who passed away
in his 80s, had a chance to
be on "The Merv Griffin Show"
with you.
[LAUGHTER]
>> The funny story is I was
in a restaurant in Hollywood.
And I was sitting not too
far from a megastar, a really
famous Hollywood personality.
>> Wow.
>> And as this person was
walking out of the restaurant,
a man stopped him and
said, oh, I know you.
You're on television.
Wait.
Come over to my table.
And he had seven
daughters with him.
And the person, this megastar,
went over to the table
and very politely shook his
hand, signed an autograph,
kissed a couple of the girls.
>> Sweet.
>> You know who that star was?
>> No.
>> It was you.
>> Oh.
>> It was right after
Chuck was on the show.
>> Right after we did
the friendly show.
We know what you
were like before.
>> Even you.
>> I did that?
But see, he came on and told
me that whole friendly stuff
for 90 minutes here, about,
oh, you've got to be a friend.
But, see, I've been
that way all my life.
>> It's infectious.
>> So I got bored with him.
>> Why you leaning so
close to my friend?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> See, it happens.
That's what I mean.
Go ahead.
>> He's got an aura about--
what a wonderful guy.
>>NOORY: And you have dark hair
in the afterlife, don't you?
>>MARTINI: I look a little
bit more like Merv now.
>>NOORY: Yeah, exactly.
>>MARTINI: Well, Charles
Grodin is such a funny comedian
and such a good friend.
His comic idea was anyone
can do a talk show.
So I'm going to
take on my friend,
Richard, introduce him as
the most charismatic person
in the country today.
And Merv will just
act like he's a guest.
And in this segment, Merv
does this thing of like,
I'm only used to sitting
next to superstars.
And so I told the story
that I had prepared.
Because I had seen Merv
at a local restaurant
signing autographs.
But I didn't say his name.
And I said there was
this megastar who was
super friendly and super nice.
You know who that was, Merv?
And he was like, no.
And I said it was you.
And then he remembered
that moment.
So it was a way of
turning the tables
on Merv, but a comic thing--
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>MARTINI: --which
leads us into--
I produced "The
Charles Grodin Show."
I was one of the
producers on the show.
>>NOORY: Oh, you were?
>>MARTINI: Yeah, yeah.
And I saw James Van
Praagh on "Larry King."
And I said let's bring on James.
Let's see if he could talk
to our mutual friend, Chuck's
and my friend, Luana
Anders, who had passed away.
And so he came on, and that
segment is in the movie.
We're live on camera.
>>NOORY: How'd he do?
>>MARTINI: And that's the
moment I realized that she still
existed.
Because James Van
Praagh said there's
a photograph on
your refrigerator
that's the essence
of your relationship.
He also talked about my
martini glass collection.
But he said that photograph
is what she's showing me.
And, George, only
once in my life have I
ever put up a photograph
and said aloud, oh,
look, the essence
of our relationship.
It was me and her in Italy
eating cookies and laughing.
When he said that, I knew beyond
a shadow of any doubt for me,
not for anybody else
that she still existed.
And that's led us to
this moment today.
Then I talked to
Chuck two days ago.
Again, my friend who's on the
flipside, who came through
to Jennifer, who wanted to
converse with me, who wanted
to tell me to lose a little
bit of weight, which is always
the thing that he should
be telling me to do,
whatever thing.
Anyway, part of our podcast.
And I, of course,
still love the guy.
But it allows us to
realize our loved
ones haven't gone anywhere.
>>NOORY: Absolutely
on the flipside.
What's next after
the "Flipside?"
>>MARTINI: After this,
I've got a book coming out.
I'm going to be finishing up.
And it's about musicians.
And I've just focused,
because the last one
was about architecture,
architecture--
>>NOORY: Musicians
who have passed on?
>>MARTINI: Musicians who passed
on, but also asking them,
are they still creating music?
And what's it like over there?
And for example, Jimi Hendrix,
the greatest guitarist
of all time--
he shows up quite a
bit in our research.
And I'm not really sure why.
But where people will
say, I'll ask them.
So who was there to greet
you when you crossed over?
And they'll say Jimi Hendrix.
And I'm thinking, why?
And it turns out
that he loves to play
this role of somebody who helps
somebody onto the flipside.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>MARTINI: Because
recognize him instantly.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MARTINI: They know who he is.
>>NOORY: One of the world's
greatest guitarists.
>>MARTINI: And they're
like, this can't be a dream.
I'm actually on stage with Jimi.
And that's their way of--
anyway, so it's a lot of
different musicians combined.
>>NOORY: Can you
get people convinced
that there's an afterlife?
>>MARTINI: I think it's a
reflexive experience, which
is if you haven't had
the experience skydiving,
then you can talk about
it as much as you want.
But unless you jump
out of a plane,
that's when you know that
you've experienced it.
When a loved one comes
to you, and shows you,
or demonstrates to you that they
still exist, then you know it.
But it's very hard to convince
somebody whose filters are
very thick and up.
Apparently, the human
brain has these filters.
We all have them.
Some children don't.
Some people just prior
to passing lose them.
Mediums don't seem to have them.
But you can bypass them with
hypnotherapy, meditation,
or mediumship.
Anyone can do the same.
And I think it's
worth exploring.
>>NOORY: You're one of the
best when it comes to it.
Have you ever been in a
contest to prove the afterlife?
[LAUGHTER]
>>MARTINI: There is one.
Some guy in Vegas put
up a million dollars.
And I'll be taking my private
jet home after the show.
>>NOORY: Is it over?
>>MARTINI: No, it's over,
but I don't know who's won.
But I got to tell you.
>>NOORY: Did anybody win?
>>MARTINI: Somebody
will, let's say.
But what I did was I
focused on Ian Stevenson.
The professor at
University of Virginia
left behind a
combination lock test.
OK?
And I'm going to reveal
what I learned on camera so
that your viewers
can do it themselves.
My theory is that I can access
Ian Stevenson through Jennifer
Shaffer or any medium
without saying his last name,
without her knowing anything
about the combination lock.
>>NOORY: He just pops up.
>>MARTINI: And I said,
I want to talk to Ian.
And I want to ask him a
question about a puzzle.
And there's a puzzle that
he's aware of that he
knows the answer to.
And I want him to show--
>>NOORY: And nobody else--
>>MARTINI: --it to you.
>>NOORY: --knows that answer.
>>MARTINI: That's correct.
And so Jennifer said,
I'm seeing Einstein.
And I said OK.
Is the name Einstein the answer?
Has to be six letters.
She said, no, he's showing
me E equals MC squared.
And I said--
>>NOORY: Bingo.
>>MARTINI: --so E equals
mass times constant,
times constant squared.
>>NOORY: Times the
speed of light.
>>MARTINI: There's the six.
Well, the speed of light,
maybe that's what it is.
>>NOORY: That's what it is.
>>MARTINI: But those
are the six things.
But the answer is--
and he said it's spelled out.
It's that equation spelled out.
And so anybody-- like you
just said it differently
than I would have said it.
So whoever can
figure out what the--
because it's on the
Wikipedia page, the method
that he used for
the mathematics.
So E is number 4 and et cetera.
You can figure it out.
So anybody can learn
how to do this.
I reached out to
the guys at UVA.
I had them try E
equals MC squared.
It didn't work.
But that didn't stop me from
talking to Ian, you see?
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>MARTINI: So if somebody else
can figure out what that means,
E equals MC squared spelled out.
And maybe you're correct.
Instead of saying
a constant, it's--
>>NOORY: Mass equals--
>>MARTINI: Mass
equals-- no, wait.
Energy.
>>NOORY: E is energy,
equals mass times
the speed of light squared.
>>MARTINI: Speed
of light squared.
>>NOORY: Squared.
>>MARTINI: I had said
constant, because it's MC.
But you may be right.
He might have-- it's
whatever Ian used.
But I'm just saying get
a medium, find a medium,
ask them the same.
Ask Ian the same question.
And if you see a
visual of Einstein,
then you'll know he's
talking about the same thing.
We can all do that.
And I think we all should.
>>NOORY: Richard, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>MARTINI: George, thank
you so much for being here.
And I appreciate you,
appreciate your show.
>>NOORY: I love the work you
do-- hacking the afterlife.
One day, we may be hacking you.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]